<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXII: Journey’s End</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-32" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Journey’s End</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Robin had instructions to bring his sister to Barham Court, where my lord would await their coming. My lord wrote a beautiful letter to my Lady Enderby, thanking her for her kindness to his daughter, and begging her to honour his house with her company. He purposed to invite Sir Humphrey and Letty Grayson down too; my Lady Lowestoft, and of course Sir Anthony Fanshawe. He had begun to meditate nuptials: Robin felt sure that they were to be magnificent.</p>
			<p>As for this unlooked for ending, it took Robin’s breath away. It seemed there was no longer room for doubt: the old gentleman was Barham indeed, and the days of their adventuring were over. Faith, and it was like him to allow his children to doubt him to the end! It gave him the chance to make a gesture. It had been so, Robin reflected, all through this masquerade. Simplicity was abhorrent to his lordship; he revelled in a network of intrigue; he loved to accomplish the impossible. A less tortuous man might have established his identity in a way quieter and more direct; a less fantastic man might not perhaps have perceived the need for his son and daughter to be in town all this while. They could have escaped to France, and waited there. Robin understood the workings of that stupendous mind. The old gentleman wanted them to see his triumph; it would have lost half its savour if they had not been there to be mystified, aghast, and at the last thunderstruck. He liked also to make a dupe of the whole of Polite Society. He had thrown his son and daughter right into the lion’s den, masquerading in a preposterous guise: Robin could imagine his delight. In fact, the old gentleman had once more shown himself to be too clever for the rest of the world, and for him that was the breath of life.</p>
			<p>Robin wondered whether my lord would be content now, or whether thirty years of adventuring would not prove too strong for him. It was hard to imagine the old gentleman at rest.</p>
			<p>Robin wondered too what Prue would have to say to it, if she did not already know of my lord’s success. John, packing a valise for Robin, thought that Miss Prue would not be surprised. He said with a dry smile:⁠—“She’s taken up with her own affairs, Master Robin. Leastways, she was when I saw her.”</p>
			<p>“Have you been down to Dartrey?” Robin asked.</p>
			<p>“Ay, when I’d put you aboard the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Pride o’ Rye</i> I was off post haste with all her gear.”</p>
			<p>“How was she?”</p>
			<p>“Well enough, but my Lady’s Enderby’s clothes hung on her. It’s a merry, stout lady, that.”</p>
			<p>Robin played with the hare’s-foot. “She wasn’t married, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“She was not, sir, but I’d say it won’t be long before she is.”</p>
			<p>“Pleased, eh?”</p>
			<p>“He’s a fine man, Master Robin.”</p>
			<p>“Oh ay, I dare swear he’ll suit her. Egad, she’ll turn respectable! I’m to be married myself, John.”</p>
			<p>“No need to tell me that, sir.”</p>
			<p>“You’re mighty knowing, a’n’t you?” Robin got up, and stretched himself. “And so we all live happily ever after. Who’d ha’ thought it?”</p>
			<p>He journeyed to Dartrey in a luxurious chaise, which had the arms of the Tremaines blazoned on the doors, and enjoyed a silent laugh over it, remembering hand-to-mouth days abroad. He reached Dartrey on the afternoon of the next day, and was set down at an old white house that stood in well-timbered grounds, back from the road. A servant ushered him into the sunny withdrawing room, and went away to find his lady.</p>
			<p>Robin took critical stock of his surroundings. Ay, here was an air of security, of comfort, and of tranquillity. It would suit Prue; she was made to live in just such a house. For himself⁠—eh, but one wanted a spice to life, after all.</p>
			<p>A pleasant voice broke into his reverie. “Do you desire to see my Lady Enderby, sir?”</p>
			<p>Robin turned quickly to face the long windows that gave on to the lawn. Sir Anthony Fanshawe stood there, sleepy as ever, smiling a little. “She commissioned me to bring you out into the garden,” Sir Anthony said. His eyes ran over Robin, and narrowed. Gradually a look of recognition and of wonder came.</p>
			<p>Robin had given no name to the servant. Now as he looked at Sir Anthony his lips quivered. “I thank you, sir. And do I address Sir Anthony Fanshawe?”</p>
			<p>“I am undoubtedly a fool,” Sir Anthony said, and came into the room. “But I confess you had me baffled. How are you, my dear boy?”</p>
			<p>Their hands clasped warmly. “As you see, O mountain. I flourish. And you?”</p>
			<p>“The same as ever. Prue’s well, and will be overjoyed to see you. You must come out to her.” Sir Anthony stood back the better to survey Robin. “Well, my little popinjay, you make a mighty pretty young man.”</p>
			<p>“I do, don’t I?” Robin retorted. “One of these days my mammoth, I will cross foils with you, and maybe teach you a trick or two will make you respect me.”</p>
			<p>“You are really very like your father,” sighed Sir Anthony.</p>
			<p>They went out together on to the lawn. There was a cedar tree not far from the house, and chairs set under it. A lady of ample proportions sat in one: Robin had no difficulty in recognising Sir Anthony’s sister. Beside her Prudence sat in a gown of white muslin. She looked up as the two men crossed the lawn, and rose quickly. “My dear!” she said, and held out her hands as she went to meet Robin.</p>
			<p>He put an arm round her waist, and kissed her cheek. “Well, child, does the gentleman like you in this guise?” Privately he thought he had never seen her look better. Handsome she was as a boy, but in her petticoats she was a beautiful, queenly creature: a big woman, perhaps, but not too big for the man she had chosen.</p>
			<p>She gave her delightful chuckle. “He says so, my dear, but I doubt he doesn’t like to hurt my sensibilities. But I must make you known to my lady.” She led him forward. “Beatrice, will you be kind to my little brother?”</p>
			<p>My lady held out a plump hand. “I’ll be kind to anyone who doesn’t want me to get up,” she said in a voice very like Sir Anthony’s. She looked Robin over placidly. “Of course, I begin to understand,” she said. “You would make a charming girl.”</p>
			<p>Robin bowed over her hand, and his eyes began to dance. “Not near so charming a girl as a man, ma’am,” he assured her.</p>
			<p>“Very, very like his lordship,” said Sir Anthony pensively.</p>
			<p>Robin was made to sit down beside my lady. “I feel sure you are going to entertain me,” she remarked. “I’ve been driven to yawning point: I never could abide a pair of lovers.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m come to relieve you, ma’am. I’m to bear Prue off.” He gave her my lord’s letter. “I have this to deliver from my father.”</p>
			<p>My lady opened the letter. Said Prudence twinkling:⁠—“Is it true the old gentleman’s Barham indeed?”</p>
			<p>“So he says. I arrived to find him installed at the town house in some state.”</p>
			<p>“Lord, it’s a marvellous man!” Prudence said. “We become persons of consequence, and Tony’s denied his cherished role. He’d an ambition to play King Cophetua, Robin.”</p>
			<p>“The poor mountain! All your hopes fall to the ground, sir. The old gentleman is like to demand a prince at the least for his daughter.”</p>
			<p>“Remains only Gretna,” said Sir Anthony. “Which reminds me⁠—how did you leave Letty Grayson?”</p>
			<p>“Reluctantly, my mammoth. Shall we be married all four together and delight the old gentleman with so much display?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, we don’t desire to dwarf you, little man!”</p>
			<p>My lady looked up from her letter. “I’m bid forth to Barham, Tony. You are all in league to disturb my peace. Well, we’ll see what Thomas says.”</p>
			<p>Sir Thomas came soon into sight round a corner of the hedge. He was as lean as his lady was stout, and his eye was as vague as hers was keen. He accepted Robin philosophically, but seemed to be exercised over his roses. “I’ve a mind to move them,” he said. “They don’t thrive. Do you understand roses, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Alack, sir, my education’s been neglected.”</p>
			<p>“A pity,” Sir Thomas said gravely.</p>
			<p>His wife roused herself to inform him of my lord’s invitation. “Do we go, Sir Thomas?”</p>
			<p>Sir Thomas considered it. “He might understand roses,” he said hopefully.</p>
			<p>It was not until later, after dinner, that Prudence had a word alone with her brother. She stepped out with him into the dim, scented garden, and walked with him beside a bed of lavender, her silken skirts hushing gently as she went. In the lamp-lit room they had left my lady said:⁠—“That’s a very pretty pair, Tony. I don’t deny it. You must know you’ve to embrace the brother if you would embrace the sister.”</p>
			<p>“My dear Beatrice, do you suppose I did not know it? It’s a devoted couple. I wouldn’t have it otherwise.”</p>
			<p>“I shall have to come to Barham for your wedding,” decided my lady. “I’ve an ambition to see the old gentleman.”</p>
			<p>“He will fatigue you sadly, my dear.”</p>
			<p>“A mad business from start to finish,” said my lady. “I’ll see it to the end.”</p>
			<p>Beside the bed of lavender Prudence walked with a hand tucked in Robin’s arm. “So we come to the journey’s end.”</p>
			<p>“You’re happy?”</p>
			<p>“Egad, don’t you think so?”</p>
			<p>“To say truth, I thought it. You achieve respectability.”</p>
			<p>“I make you my curtsey, child, for the compliment.”</p>
			<p>Robin watched it critically. “Not so prettily done as I can do it, my dear.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I always said I’d none of your graces. But think of my height. And you⁠—what do you achieve?”</p>
			<p>“Letty.” He laughed a little. “She would not thank you for calling that respectability.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t, be sure. What for the old gentleman?”</p>
			<p>“Faith, isn’t a Viscounty enough? Do you look to see him turn respectable too?”</p>
			<p>“Optimism falls short of it. In truth, we all achieve something more than our deserts. It’s a quaint world.” She smiled and joined hands with him. “Give you joy, Robin.”</p>
			<p>“Certainly, child.” He pressed her long fingers. “And you have it.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I have it.” She turned her head, for a large figure was coming towards them.</p>
			<p>“Abundance of it,” Robin said wickedly.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>But a week later, at Barham, on the terrace, my lord looked over the lawns to where four people were throwing bread to the carp in the marble pond and waved a satisfied hand. “I contrive!” he said.</p>
			<p>My lady looked too at the pretty group. There was Prudence, blue-gowned, and stately, leaning on Sir Anthony’s arm and beside them Robin seemed to be endeavouring to prevent an eager, laughing Letitia from overbalancing into the pond. It was a charming picture and my lady’s bright eyes softened as she looked. “What, all of it, Robert?”</p>
			<p>“All of it,” said my lord. “My plans are accomplished; I win⁠—as ever. I have surpassed myself.”</p>
			<p>“And when they are married⁠—voilà, your labours are ended at last.”</p>
			<p>My lord wrinkled his brow. “My Thérèse, you should know that I am a man of too powerful a character to fold my hands.” He looked meditative. “I have too large a vision to be so easily satisfied.”</p>
			<p>“La⁠—la! What now?” cried my lady in some alarm.</p>
			<p>My lord became impressive. “It is not fitting that I should be no more than a Viscount,” he said. “Our house must be enlarged. You may look to see it happen, Thérèse.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Mon Dieu</i>, and will it?”</p>
			<p>“Do not doubt it,” answered his lordship. “I have made up my mind that my son must inherit an Earldom at the least. I shall once more contrive. Do not doubt that I shall contrive! I am a great man, Thérèse: I realize it at last. I am a very great man.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
