<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XV: Challenge to Mr. Merriot</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Challenge to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Merriot</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>There was no means of telling what John, that stolid creature, made of the situation. His young master and mistress suspected him of being deeper in the old gentleman’s secrets than they were, but he had never a word to say on the matter. When my lord had made his first startling appearance they came home and told him of it, and awaited some show of surprise. It was not forthcoming. John gave a grunt and said that he had doubted but that the old gentleman would arrive soon. As to the manner of his arrival, John seemed to think it natural enough, and he never failed thereafter to give my lord his title. The old gentleman had greeted him with an affectionate smile, and a hand carelessly outflung. John had looked beneath his brows and said gruffly that the affair of Master Robin must be seen to. He further volunteered the opinion that Robin’s present guise was unseemly. As for Miss Prue, the sooner she was got out of this coil the better. John had a grim way with him, but they had none of them the need ever to stand in doubt of his devotion. Nothing could abate the supreme belief in himself that my lord held, but certainly he used fewer extravagancies with his servant than with his children, and would condescend to listen to John’s disapproving words. But not even John could hope to make much impression on that magnificent mind. My lord waved a hand, and promised ultimate success.</p>
			<p>“You’re playing a game I don’t understand, my lord,” John said severely. “It’s more of your play-acting, for sure, but why you should do it, sir, I can’t see.”</p>
			<p>“I plan a great coup,” my lord assured him. “There must never be aught crude in my actions, John. There has never been. I go warily, and I contrive. Oh, but I contrive a tour de force! Continue to watch over my children!”</p>
			<p>“It’s well there’s someone to do it, my lord,” said John. “For it’s little care of them you’d be taking. Masquerades and the like!”</p>
			<p>“My John, you are foolish. You lack understanding. My wing is spread over the children, as ever.”</p>
			<p>“There’s this Miss Grayson,” John continued, entirely ignoring his lordship. “Master Robin must needs set his fancy on her. I’d a word or two with Sir Humphrey’s man, and it’s little hope there is that he’d countenance such a marriage.”</p>
			<p>The old gentleman half closed his eyes. “He shall countenance it, John. If I were to fail in my claim, which is not possible, he should countenance it. You shall all of you dance to my piping.” He smiled with delight at the thought. In some things he had the mind of a child.</p>
			<p>“There’s one that won’t dance to your piping, my lord,” was John’s parting shot. “And that’s Miss Prue’s sleepy gentleman!”</p>
			<p>My lord wasted as much as three minutes on the consideration of this announcement, but arrived at the conclusion that there could be no truth in it. He could never be got to doubt his own powers.</p>
			<p>It was understood in polite circles that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley had had disturbing news from his lawyers regarding the claim. It was soon bruited abroad that these men thought some inquiry should be made into his lordship’s past before he should be positively declared Tremaine of Barham. My lord seemed to be quite content with this decision. He smiled, and put his finger-tips together as his habit was, and begged the lawyers to make what enquiries they would. Meanwhile he continued to parade the town.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley was soon infuriated to find that his supposed cousin’s past was hidden in an obscurity there seemed to be no hope of piercing. Inquiries led precisely nowhere. It was true that a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Challoner had once kept a gaming-house in Munich, and it was believed he had gone thence to Rome. But there could be found no trace of him in that ancient city. Indeed, how should there be? Had these seekers after truth mentioned the name of a German baron who had stayed in Rome some years ago they might have learned something of considerable interest from those who remembered that remarkable gentleman. But the seekers, unfortunately, had never heard of the baron, and they were forced to abandon the search for truth.</p>
			<p>My lord was understood now to have two children. He spoke of them enthusiastically upon all occasions. Sir Anthony, hearing him, said humorously: “It seems you are to be congratulated, sir.”</p>
			<p>“You have said it!” His lordship turned his compelling gaze upon the immovable large gentleman. “My daughter⁠—my Prudence! A Venus!” He looked soulful. “I say it who should not. She favours her mother, my poor Maria. A statue carved in ivory and rose! A goddess, with a voice of gold! Soon you shall see her,” he promised.</p>
			<p>“Egad, we’re agog to, sir!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Molyneux, smothering a grin. “And is your son thus godlike too?”</p>
			<p>“My little Robin!” sighed his lordship. “He has not the height for it, alack! But he is well enough. To see him in the duello is to say he is incomparable. I pine to clasp them to me once more.”</p>
			<p>“And⁠—if one is permitted to ask,” said Sir Anthony, observing a speck of dust on his great cuff through a levelling quizzing-glass. “Where are these two paragons?”</p>
			<p>“It is permitted. They stay with a friend in France. I send for them when this business is at an end.”</p>
			<p>“Did you ever see or hear the like?” demanded Sir Raymond Orton when the old gentleman had gone.</p>
			<p>“A most remarkable man,” said Sir Anthony, and yawned behind his scented handkerchief.</p>
			<p>Prudence herself, encountering my lord at Lady Elton’s rout one evening, was informed that she too should have the felicity of meeting his daughter. She bowed politely, and professed herself to be enchanted by the prospect.</p>
			<p>A new piece of information was very soon passed from mouth to mouth. It appeared that no one could discover whence my lord had sprung when he came to make his claim. It had been supposed that he came from France, but no trace of him could be found either at Calais or on the packet boat. He seemed to have sprung up out of the earth in a manner most mysterious, and he could not be identified with any traveller from France for weeks past.</p>
			<p>It was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Devereux who conceived the brilliant notion that my lord had not been in France at all, but even this flash of insight failed to lead anywhere.</p>
			<p>Prudence, remembering past traffickings, guessed that my lord had been a passenger on one of those crafts that carefully avoid all ports and King’s ships, but put into land in odd out-of-the-way coves under cover of night. But this she kept to herself.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Devereux begged her to say whether or no she credited my lord’s claim. She laughed, and tapped her riding whip against her boot. “Why, sir, it’s not for me to hazard an opinion. But it seems to me that his lordship was born to the part.”</p>
			<p>“True, very true,” nodded <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Devereux. “Charles was saying only this moment he has more the manner of it than our friend Rensley.”</p>
			<p>“He could scarcely have less,” said Prudence dryly.</p>
			<p>There was a heavy footstep behind her. By an evil chance <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley had entered the room at that instant, and was bearing down upon the group by the fire. He came fresh from a gloomy interview with his lawyer; he was conscious that everywhere his chances were being discussed. And now he entered White’s to hear a young upstart from the country pass disparaging remarks upon himself. He strode therefore straight up to Prudence, and with a look in his eyes not at all pleasant, rapped out: “Who could not have less of what, my fine sir?”</p>
			<p>It was evident that Rensley had heard all. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Devereux coughed and gazed at the ceiling, reflecting that it was like Rensley to choose a suckling for his prey.</p>
			<p>Prudence turned a little to face <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley. There was danger confronting her, as well she knew. She said quietly: “I spoke to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Devereux, sir, I believe.”</p>
			<p>“Your words were not meant for my ears I make no doubt,” said Rensley evilly.</p>
			<p>Prudence bowed. “You apprehend the matter correctly, sir.”</p>
			<p>There was a certain air of tense expectation in the room. Prudence felt that she was on her trial. God knew how it would end!</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley might well let be now. He looked sullenly at Prudence, and thought that he heard a whisper in the group behind her. There had been too much whispering of late; very badly did <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley want to avenge himself on someone. He was not ill pleased to take Prudence for a scapegoat. This young ruffler gave himself insufferable airs: it was time he was taught a lesson. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley spoke more offensively still. “I see, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Merriot, that you don’t care to repeat your words.”</p>
			<p>There fell a sudden stillness. “I do not, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley.”</p>
			<p>“On what grounds, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Merriot, I wonder?”</p>
			<p>“On the grounds, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley, of good manners.”</p>
			<p>Rensley flushed. “In which you think me lacking, eh?”</p>
			<p>“I have not told you so, sir.”</p>
			<p>“And you don’t think it?”</p>
			<p>There was a slight pause. Prudence realized, dismayed, that the group behind her was awaiting curiously her challenge. To conciliate this angry, red-faced man, meant the loss of every man’s good opinion; in a word, it meant social ostracism. A challenge was offered, and it seemed it must be accepted. Pride could not be swallowed. She spoke deliberately. “That question, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley, I prefer to leave unanswered.”</p>
			<p>“Afraid, eh?”</p>
			<p>Egad, was she afraid? She thought she was too much her father’s daughter. A cold anger took her in its hold; she looked Rensley full between the eyes. “You become insulting, sir. I take leave to tell you, since you will have it, that your manners belong to the taproom.”</p>
			<p>It was out, and did she regret it? She became aware of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Belfort at her elbow, and was conscious of the approval of him and of the others in the circle. No, come what might, the thing had to be, and she regretted nothing.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley flushed darker still. Sure, the man would have an apoplexy one of these days. “I shall send my friends to wait upon yours, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Merriot.”</p>
			<p>“Certainly, sir.” She looked towards <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Belfort, who nodded encouragingly. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Devereux smiled wearily, and stepped forward a pace. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Belfort will act for me, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Devereux,” she said, and turned to resume her conversation with them.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley bowed stiffly and went out. Belfort clapped Prudence on the shoulder. “Well said, my boy!” he declared. “I knew you’d never swallow that! Gad, it’s a good six months since I’ve acted for anyone. We’ll see some sport now!”</p>
			<p>Prudence, her anger evaporating fast, could have found another name for it. “I don’t desire this to come to my sister’s ears, Charles,” she said. “I needn’t warn you, I suppose.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, not a word, my dear Merriot, trust me!” promised <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Belfort. “He’ll name Markham and Jessup his seconds, I dare swear. You’ll choose swords, I take it? We’ll have the whole affair fixed up as snug and quiet as you please.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Molyneux spoke disapproval. “Rensley must have taken leave of his senses,” he said in an undertone to Sir Raymond Orton. “A man of his years to challenge a boy to fight! It’s child murder!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, it won’t come to that, Molyneux,” was Sir Raymond’s comfortable belief. “He’ll pink him easily enough, and Merriot will lie up for a week or so. Rensley knows better than to make it a killing matter. People are getting damned strict over these duels, you know.”</p>
			<p>It was Prudence’s own belief as she walked back to Arlington Street: she had not much fear of death, but the thing as it stood was bad enough. It was true she had considerable knowledge of sword-play, but she knew very well that it was one thing to play with foils and quite another to fight in good earnest a man who was one’s declared enemy.</p>
			<p>He was a strong man too, by the looks of him. Maybe she might have something of an advantage in the matter of quickness; sure, she had been taught a trick or two not many knew. The affair was not hopeless, she believed, but she admitted she had small relish for it.</p>
			<p>One might tell Robin, of course. Ay, and be swept off to France, or see him throw off his disguise and take her place in the encounter. He was quite equal to it; he lacked her cautiousness. Against flight she resolutely set her face. One would leave a sullied name behind; the large gentleman⁠—well, what of him? She considered the point, and found herself blushing. Oh, she must needs stand well with him? The more fool she!</p>
			<p>There was the old gentleman, to be sure, but she could not see how he might be expected to help in this. He could whisk her off, doubtless, as Robin would, and then what lay before? She saw a dark road that way, and turned from it. There was little enough to hope for in staying here in England, when one came to think of it, but⁠—Lord, what ailed her that she must still cling to this masquerade?</p>
			<p>She reflected that she had steered her craft into a whirlpool; and discovered an ambition in herself to steer it out again, without assistance. To take Robin into her confidence was to overset all their plans: it was to become, in fact, a nuisance.</p>
			<p>It was possible she might be unmasked in this encounter: that had to be considered. A wound, the apothecary⁠—Lord, what a pretty scandal! If the worst came to the worst, and her wits failed her, she believed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Belfort might be taken into her confidence. She had a feeling she could trust him. He could arrange matters so as to preserve her secret. She might appeal to his love of adventure. It was not what she liked, but if no better scheme presented itself it might serve. And one must not forget that there was always the possibility of vanquishing <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley.</p>
			<p>She came home in mood somewhat silent, and Robin railed gaily at her for dreaming of her mountain.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
