<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXX: Triumph of Lord Barham</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Triumph of Lord Barham</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Speculation concerning the result of my Lord Barham’s coming meeting in Grosvenor Square was in abeyance. The strange flight of the Merriots formed the topic of every conversation in Polite Circles. It was a seven-days’ wonder, and society was greatly put out to think it had received this couple with open arms. It was felt that my Lady Lowestoft had been very much to blame, and quite a number of people who heard my lady’s lamentation felt a glow of superiority. They had a comfortable conviction that they would never have been so foolish as to invite such a chance-met pair to stay. One or two persons had an odd idea that they had heard my lady say she was acquainted with the Merriots’ father, but when they mentioned this my lady was positively indignant. <i xml:lang="fr">Voyons</i>, how could she have said anything of the sort when she had never set eyes on the elder <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Merriot? She had been most grossly deceived; no one could imagine how great was the kindness she had shown the couple; she had had no suspicion of foul play. When she heard that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Merriot was taken by the law for the killing of Gregory Markham she was so shocked, so astonished, she could scarcely speak. And then, next morning, to find Kate flown, and a horse gone from her own stables⁠—oh, she was prostrated. The affair was terrible⁠—she believed she would never recover.</p>
			<p>It seemed like it indeed. Society grew tired of hearing her on this subject, for she could talk of naught else. And where had the Merriots gone? Who were the men who snatched Peter from the coach? One had undoubtedly been the servant, John, but who was the other? The unfortunate gaolers swore to a man of gigantic size, but no one paid much heed to that. It was the sort of exaggeration one would have expected.</p>
			<p>Sir Anthony Fanshawe heard of it down at Dartrey, and took the trouble to write to his friend Molyneux. He protested he could not believe young Merriot was the villain this affair showed him to be. He was inexpressibly shocked by the news, but he felt sure some explanation must sooner or later be forthcoming. He ended by telling his friend that he had some notion of extending his stay with my Lady Enderby, since her ladyship had with her a most charming visitor.</p>
			<p>Molyneux chuckled over this, and told <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Troubridge that Beatrice Enderby was once more trying to foist an eligible bride on to poor Tony.</p>
			<p>In the meantime there could be found no trace of the fugitives. They had vanished, and no man saw the way they went. Nor did any man see the way John returned, for he came secretly and looked quite different. The black hair had changed to a grizzled brown crop; the black brows became sandy, and the ugly mole beside his nose had vanished. It was not to be expected that the Merriots’ swarthy servant wore a wig, darkened his brows and lashes, and affixed a seeming mole to his face. Nor could it cross anyone’s mind that an old servant of my lord’s, who had been in waiting on the young Tremaines should have any connection with the Merriots’ lackey. Such a notion occurred to no one, more especially since it appeared that more than once my lord had warned my Lady Lowestoft that she should not trust too much in her youthful visitors.</p>
			<p>People could not help admiring my lord’s perspicacity. He shook his head at my lady, and said only: “Ah, Thérèse!”</p>
			<p>Whereupon my lady put a handkerchief to her eyes, and confessed that she had been wrong in her estimation of the Merriots, and my lord right. It became known that my lord had warned her many times; he had suspected something to be amiss from the first.</p>
			<p>For three days everyone had theories to put forward, and exclamations to make, but on the fourth day interest veered round again to my lord’s claim.</p>
			<p>My lord was to meet the lawyers and his cousin at Grosvenor Square, and he would give conclusive proof of his identity.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley, with his arm still in a sling, awaited the issue with not unjustifiable impatience. The family lawyers, Clapperly and Brent, were the first to arrive: young <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly brought old <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly, long since retired from the lists; and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent brought a grave clerk, and many documents.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent rubbed his hands together and murmured over a list he held. He desired to know whether a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Staines, and a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Samuel Burton had arrived.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley stared at that. “Burton?” he echoed. “Do you mean my lodge-keeper?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent coughed. “Let us say, sir, the lodge-keeper at Barham. You know we said we would not be⁠—er⁠—controversial.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley said something under his breath, at which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly frowned. “Why should he arrive?” he asked brusquely.</p>
			<p>“The claimant, sir, desired it. Also <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Staines, who is, I believe, Burton’s sister.”</p>
			<p>“I know nothing about her,” Rensley answered. “Has that impostor bribed them to recognize him?”</p>
			<p>Young <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly, a man of some forty years, begged <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley to moderate his language. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent assured Rensley that my lord had not set eyes on either Burton or his sister since his arrival: both brother and sister were as mystified as he was himself.</p>
			<p>Shortly after this the couple arrived, and were ushered into the big library.</p>
			<p>Burton was a stockily-built man of middle age, sandy-haired and blue-eyed; his sister was rather older, a respectable-looking woman, who dropped a shy curtsey to Rensley, and another to the lawyers. She was given a chair by the table, and sat down on the extreme edge of it, with her brother beside her.</p>
			<p>“Three o’clock,” said young <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly, consulting a large watch. “I think we said three, sir?”</p>
			<p>A coach was heard to drive up, as though in answer. In a few minutes the door opened to admit my Lord Barham, my Lord Clevedale, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy.</p>
			<p>My lord swept a magnificent leg to the assembled company. “I am late!” he exclaimed. “I offer a thousand apologies!”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, no, almost to the minute,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent told him.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley was looking with dislike upon my lord’s companions. My lord addressed him at once. “You scowl upon my friends, cousin. But you must remember that I have the right to bring whom I will to this interview.” He turned to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly. “Is that not so?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, perfectly, sir! There can be no objection. Pray, will you not be seated, gentlemen?”</p>
			<p>They were grouped about a table that stood in the middle of the room. My lord sat at the end of the table, with old <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly opposite to him. My lord produced his snuffbox, and unfobbed it. “And now my cousin Rensley wants to put some questions to me,” he said gently. “There is no reason why I should answer any of them. I stand proved already Tremaine of Barham. You have tried to find that I stole my papers, and you have failed, gentlemen. I condole with you. Let me hear your questions; I shall endeavour to satisfy you.”</p>
			<p>There was an uncomfortable air of strain in the room; my lord was too much master of the situation. Rensley sat on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly’s right hand, and scowled at the table. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly had begged him to leave all to his men of business, and he had agreed to hold his peace. He did not look at my lord; the sight of that smiling countenance enraged him to the point of desperation.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy preserved his prim severity; my Lord Clevedale lounged beside the old gentleman, and was frankly agog with curiosity. Burton and his sister sat together on one side of the table, and appeared to be rather bewildered.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent signed to his clerk, who brought forward a leather case. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent opened this, and produced a slip of paper. It seemed to have been cut from a letter, for it was closely written over. “Perhaps, sir, you would be good enough to tell us if you recognize this writing,” he said courteously, and gave the slip to the clerk, who carried it to my lord.</p>
			<p>My lord put out a white hand to receive it. He glanced at it, smiled, and gave it back. “Certainly,” he said. “It is my father’s hand.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley shot a quick look at him, and bit his lip.</p>
			<p>“Thank you, sir,” bowed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent. “And these?”</p>
			<p>My lord took three other such slips. One he handed back at once. “My brother. Pray take it away.” He frowned over the second and shook his head. “I have not the smallest notion,” he said calmly. “I doubt whether I have ever seen it before.” He turned to the third, and spent some time over it. “I am inclined to think that this must be my Aunt Susanna,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Inclined, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Inclined,” nodded my lord. “I never received a letter from her in my life that I can remember. But I perceive the word Toto. My respected aunt, when I knew her⁠—and I do trust she’s dead?⁠—had a small dog of that name. A yapping, petted little brute of a spaniel. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy would remember.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy nodded. The lawyers exchanged glances. If this were indeed an impostor he knew a deal about the family of Tremaine.</p>
			<p>“But the second letter, sir?”</p>
			<p>My lord raised his brows. “I told you, did I not? I do not know the hand at all.” He put up his glass and looked at it again. “Very ill-formed,” he remarked. “No, I know no one with such an undistinguished hand.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley reddened angrily and opened his mouth to speak. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent put up a hand to silence him. “Is it not a little strange that you should not know the writing of the man you claim as cousin, sir?” he asked.</p>
			<p>My lord was aghast. He looked at Rensley. “Good gad, cousin, is it yours indeed? I have been guilty of a breach of manners! I am desolated to have passed such a stricture on your hand.”</p>
			<p>“You do not answer me, sir,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent pointed out.</p>
			<p>My lord turned to him. “I crave your pardon. But does it need an answer? I thought I had made the situation between the Tremaines and the Rensleys clear to all. It is not in the least strange that I should not recognise the hand. I had never seen it before.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent bowed in a noncommittal manner, and drew a miniature from the case before him. “Do you know this face, sir?”</p>
			<p>“I ought to,” said my lord. “But do put it away again, dear sir! I’ve not the smallest wish to gaze upon my late brother’s image.”</p>
			<p>Old <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly gave a dry cackle of laughter. Young <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly looked reproachful, and said: “I believe, gentlemen, we cannot regard that as conclusive. The late Viscount was well known. Show him the other one.”</p>
			<p>My lord held a miniature of a dark lady at arm’s length, and surveyed it critically. “When was this done?” he inquired. “It quite fails to convey an impression of her charm.”</p>
			<p>“You know the face, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Dorothea,” said my lord. “At least, so I suppose, but it is very bad. More like my aunt Johanna. There is a far better portrait of her in the gallery of Barham.” He showed the miniature to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy. “You knew my sister, sir. Do you agree that this does her less than justice?”</p>
			<p>“Miss Tremaine had certainly more animation than is shown here,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy answered.</p>
			<p>My lord gave back the miniature. There was a gleam in his eye. “But why not produce a picture of myself?” he suggested.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy, and old <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly looked sharply. Rensley said triumphantly:⁠—“You make a slip there, my clever gentleman! There is no picture of you!”</p>
			<p>My lord smiled. “No? And does my friend <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy agree with that?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy said nothing. My lord tapped the lid of his snuffbox. “What of the sketch that was taken of me when I was eighteen?” he asked softly.</p>
			<p>It was plain Rensley knew nothing of this; equally plain was it that my lord had impressed the two eldest people present. “It is true that there was once such a portrait, sir,” said old <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly. “But it exists no longer.”</p>
			<p>“You may be right,” said my lord politely. “It is a long time since I left England. But perhaps you have not looked for it in the right place.”</p>
			<p>“We have searched both in this house, and at Barham, sir. It is not to be found.”</p>
			<p>“I see that I must assist you,” smiled my lord.</p>
			<p>There was an alert look in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent’s face. “Indeed, sir, and do you know where this likeness is to be found?”</p>
			<p>“I hope so, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent. But do not let us be rash. If the likeness is still where I hid it, then I can find it.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy lost some of his primness. Everyone was staring eagerly at my lord. “Where you hid it, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Where I hid it,” repeated my lord. “Now I have overheard you to say, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy, that young Robert Tremaine was a romantic youth. It is very true! Years have not dulled the edge of my romantic fervour.” He laid down his snuffbox on the table before him, and his strangely compelling eyes swept the room. “They have only sharpened a brain that was always acute, gentlemen. You cannot fail to have observed a forethought in me that excites the admiration. I had it even as a boy.” He smiled benignantly. “Such a contingency as the present one I dimly expected, even in those far-off days. I saw that the day might come when I might desire to prove my identity. The romantic boy, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy, hid a picture of himself in this very room, to serve as a proof if ever he should need one.”</p>
			<p>“In this room!” ejaculated my Lord Clevedale, looking round.</p>
			<p>“Certainly,” said my lord. “That is why I chose this room today.” He rose. “Tell me, cousin, are you a great reader?”</p>
			<p>“No, I am not,” said Rensley curtly.</p>
			<p>“Nor was my brother,” said his lordship. “I thought of that at the time. My father was much addicted to the works of Shakespeare but I believe he had no Latin.”</p>
			<p>“What’s all this to do with it?” Rensley demanded uneasily.</p>
			<p>My lord’s glance travelled to the top shelf of the books that lined the room. “Do you ever chance to take down the works of the poet Horace, cousin?”</p>
			<p>“No, I do not, and I don’t see⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Nor did my brother, I am convinced,” said my lord. “I thought it was safe⁠—wonderfully safe, and wonderfully neat. I admire my own astuteness.” He met the puzzled eyes of my Lord Clevedale. “A great pity to have no knowledge of the humanities,” he said. “It is an estimable advantage. Had you been familiar with the Odes of Horace, cousin⁠—but you are not. But take them down now: it is never too late to begin. Over in that corner, on the top shelf you will find the first volume, elegantly bound in tooled leather, the covers clasped by wrought hasps.”</p>
			<p>“Pray, sir, what’s your meaning?” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent asked.</p>
			<p>“Why, is it not plain?” said my lord. “I ask my cousin to pull the steps to that corner, and to take down the Odes of Horace. Let him open the clasps, and turn to the Fifth Ode.”</p>
			<p>“You speak in riddles, sir.”</p>
			<p>“But the riddle will very soon be answered, sir, if my cousin will do as I say. The first volume and the Fifth Ode. It will be most enlightening.”</p>
			<p>Rensley went impatiently to the shelves. “Mountebank! What am I to find there?”</p>
			<p>“The missing sketch, my dear Rensley, of course.”</p>
			<p>“What!” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly looked up. “You put it there, sir?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t believe it!” Rensley said, and went quickly up the ladder. He found the book, and pulled it out. A moment he fumbled with the clasps. The leaves parted naturally at the Fifth Ode. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley stood staring down at the book.</p>
			<p>Every head was turned his way. “Is it there?” demanded <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly.</p>
			<p>“You were told of this!” Rensley burst out, and flung the book violently to the ground. A drawing fluttered across the room, and was pounced on by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy.</p>
			<p>Instantly everyone save my lord went to peep over <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy’s shoulder. “It is certainly Robert Tremaine,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy said. He looked from it to my lord. “And there is⁠—a likeness.”</p>
			<p>“Why, damme, sir, the eyes and nose are exact!” cried Clevedale.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Staines ventured to speak. “ ’Deed, sir, but you have a look of Master Robert.”</p>
			<p>“My good Maggie, you ought to know that I am Master Robert,” said his lordship. “I perfectly remember you.”</p>
			<p>She stared. “You do know my name, sir. But your lordship will pardon me⁠—it is so long ago, and you’ve changed, my lord.”</p>
			<p>“So it would appear,” said his lordship. “I said I should satisfy you, gentlemen.”</p>
			<p>“Pardon, sir,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent interposed. “It seems a proof certainly. But we must not forget that you might have been told of this.”</p>
			<p>“How?” inquired my lord. “No one but myself knew of it.”</p>
			<p>“I am assuming, sir, for the moment, that you are not Tremaine.”</p>
			<p>“An impertinence,” said my lord. “But I suppose I must forgive it. Pray continue. The legal mind is very wonderful.”</p>
			<p>“And if⁠—I only say if, sir⁠—you are not Tremaine, you might have heard this from the man himself.”</p>
			<p>My lord looked at him in blank astonishment. It was Clevedale who spoke. “Lord, what in the plague’s name would Tremaine tell such a secret for?”</p>
			<p>“It is a possibility, my lord: I do not say a probability.”</p>
			<p>“This is all quite ridiculous,” said my Lord Barham. “Moreover I am becoming weary of it. I bring you papers, and you say I stole them. I show you where I hid my own portrait, years ago, and you say I was told of it. I show you a ring, and you say I stole that. What a pity it is I have no birthmarks! Or would you say that I had stolen them as well? It is a very good thing that I brought my friend <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fontenoy. And here is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly as well may remember a little about me.”</p>
			<p>“Vividly, sir.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly inclined his head.</p>
			<p>“Then I am sure you will remember the circumstances of my departure, all those years ago?”</p>
			<p>“I do, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Then I beg you will correct me if I should err in my tale. It is quite short.” He offered snuff to Clevedale. “My own mixture, Clevedale. You will like it. Well, gentlemen, you know that I was never at one with my father: he could not appreciate the genius that was in me. I disliked my brother only less than he disliked me. He hated me, I believe, but he would <em>not</em> have chosen to set you in my shoes, cousin, in spite of it. He was, after all, a Tremaine. I was no doubt a wild youth. I can remember incidents here and there⁠—but no matter. I overspent my allowance with amazing regularity. I shall be careful to put no limits to my son’s income. Then I committed the indiscretion of falling in love with a lady called Maria Banstead. She was the daughter of a farmer.”</p>
			<p>“Near Barham,” nodded <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly.</p>
			<p>My lord looked ironically across at him. “Your memory fails you, sir. Not in the least near Barham. She lived at Culverly, on the estate of my aunt Johanna’s husband. I was, I admit, young, and possibly hotheaded. But I have never regretted my marriage. An incomparable creature! I led her a sad dance I fear me. I eloped with her secretly, and went to France, just as soon as I heard that I had been thrown off by my indignant family. That is my story, gentlemen. Is it true?”</p>
			<p>It was admitted to be true. My lord indicated the clerk with a wave of his hand. “Tell your clerk, Brent, to call my man in. He is in the hall.”</p>
			<p>“Certainly, my lord. Go, Fawley.” It was the first time he had addressed my lord by his title and Rensley flushed as he heard him.</p>
			<p>The clerk went out, and a moment later John stood in the doorway.</p>
			<p>Everyone looked towards him, since it seemed he had been called for some special purpose. But my lord’s eyes were on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Staines’ face. “He does not change much with the passing of time, I believe,” he said.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Staines was staring. The colour left her face, and she put up a hand to her ample bosom. “Johnny!” she faltered. “Oh, dearie, dearie, am I dreaming?”</p>
			<p>Burton was incredulous. “It’s never our John!” he gasped. “Bless my soul, but it is really yourself, John?”</p>
			<p>“Ay, it’s me,” John said grimly and sustained the shock of having his sister cast herself on his chest. “Well, Maggie, how do you, eh? Remember where you are, lass!”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Staines was quite oblivious of her surroundings. “Oh, Johnny, to think of you come back to us after all these years! Snakes, and I scarcely knew you, dearie, you’ve grown so grey! Sam, do you know your brother?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Samuel Burton gripped <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> John Burton’s hand. “Well, John!” was all he could find to say.</p>
			<p>“Did you ever learn to master the bay mare?” John asked grinning.</p>
			<p>It appeared to be an old jest. Samuel shook with laughter. “Lordy, John, to think you’d remember that! Ay, I was naught but a stripling then, and the mare the tricksiest piece⁠—well, to think you’d remember!”</p>
			<p>Surprise had held the others spellbound, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent recovered himself. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Staines, do you recognise this man?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, the legal mind!” murmured my lord.</p>
			<p>“Why, of course I do, sir! It’s our John, who went off years ago soon after Master Robert.” She turned again to her brother. “And you’ve been with him all the time! Eh, and we never thought of it! But you was always saying you’d be off to Americky to try your fortune, Johnny, and we made sure you’d gone there.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent put a question no one thought needful. “Is this gentleman Viscount Barham?” he said.</p>
			<p>John looked scornful. “Ay, of course he is,” he answered. “Is there ever another would have that nose but a Tremaine?”</p>
			<p>“You have been with him all these years?”</p>
			<p>“I have, sir, and a pretty dance he’s led me.” John smiled grimly at my lord. “Many’s the time I’ve told his lordship I’d be off home again. But we Burtons have always served Tremaine.”</p>
			<p>There was a long silence. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brent was slowly putting his papers together; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly smiled knowingly at his son; Rensley stood staring at the floor.</p>
			<p>“Cousin,” said my lord. “I trust you are at last satisfied.”</p>
			<p>“There is no more to be said, my lord,” said old <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clapperly.</p>
			<p>My lord picked up his hat. “In that case I will take my leave of you. I should like my house at the end of a week, if you please. Brent, you will make the arrangements necessary, and put my terms before <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rensley. I hope he will not find me ungenerous. Clevedale, your arm!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
